---
title: '1000 YEARS'
description: "The millennium begins with the second coming and is a period of judgment of the wicked."
order: 11
icon: 'fa-balance-scale-right'
version: '1.2'
date: 2023-05-21
video: ''
pdf: '11_1000-YEARS-merged.pdf'
slug: en/1000-years
---

# 1000 YEARS

## 1 - HOW MANY RESURRECTIONS ARE THERE? *JOHN 5:28-29*

Jesus taught that there are two separate resurrections. The first is the resurrection of life for the saved and the second is the resurrection of condemnation for the lost.

## 2 - WHEN IS THE RESURRECTION OF LIFE? *1 THES 4:16-17*

The second coming is the event that brings about the resurrection of life (see study on the Second Coming). This is the beginning of a period called the "*thousand years*" (Revelation 20:2).

## 3 - WHEN IS THE RESURRECTION OF CONDEMNATION? *REV 20:4-5*

The resurrection of condemnation takes place at the end of the thousand years.

## 4 - WHAT ARE THE SAVED DOING DURING THE 1000 YEARS? *REV 20:4*

During the thousand years God involves His people in a judgement of the world and fallen angels (see 1 Corinthians 6:2-3). This transparent process makes sure that everyone knows that what the lost receive is just.

## 5 - WHERE IS SATAN DURING THE 1000 YEARS? *REV 20:1-3*

Satan is bound by a chain of circumstances on earth in that he is unable to do what he does best– deceive. This is because the wicked are awaiting the resurrection of condemnation. Satan and his angels are left alone to anticipate their final judgement.

## 6 - AFTER THE 1000 YEARS WHAT HAPPENS TO THE SAVED? *REV 21:2*

God's people descend from heaven to earth in the holy city–the new Jerusalem.

## 7 - AFTER THE 1000 YEARS WHAT HAPPENS TO THE WICKED? *REV 20:7 - 21:1*

The resurrection of condemnation releases Satan from his prison because there are people to deceive, so he convinces them to attack the holy city. However, as they try to do so, they are destroyed by fire from heaven. This is what the Bible calls the "*second death*" (v14). After this fire has finished, God returns the earth to its former Edenic glory once again.

**God desires all to be a part of the resurrection of life. Would you like to choose today to be a part of this resurrection?**

---

# SUPPLEMENT

<!-- TODO: Insert grid supplement page -->